# BiO-HMC_Model
The code realization of paper "BiO-HMC: Dynamic Human-Machine Collaboration for Consensus Decision-Making via Bilevel Optimization"

In this paper, we propose the BiO-HMC —— a bilevel optimization-based human-machine collaboration paradigm that facilitates an inner & outer-level optimization. In light of Bayesian networks (BN) that can seamlessly encode domain knowledge, the outer-level optimization achieves the collection step by care fully designing a two-layer BN with the noisy-OR model(named NO2). In NO2, workers' responses are encoded as beliefs about candidate answers and the associated questions. These beliefs are optimized when new worker responses continuously arrive. In the inner-level optimization, we propose a question prioritization model, where the question with the highest value is selected for the next optimization process. Hence, planning steps are achieved. As solving the bilevel optimization is difficult due to the no closed form solution in the inner-level optimization, which raises a dilemma to directly optimize the outer objective function, we employ a gradient-based method and guarantee its theoretical convergence. As well as being of practical importance, the gradient method can not only alleviate computational burden but also achieve a real-time adjustment of the answers' beliefs, which helps to determine whether to terminate question collections. The main contributions are: 
1. We recast the consensus tasks as bilevel programming and propose the BiO-HMC framework, which enables a closed-loop optimization to provide workers with the
most valuable question(s), and the belief of the true answer can be discerned efficiently.
2. We facilitate the effcient bilevel optimization through (a) proposing the NOz model that taps into crowd responses to approach the correct answer; (b) designing a value preference-based function, which can prioritize valuable question(s)to accelerate the consensus decision process. In addition, we prove the inner & outer-level method's theoretical convergence.
3. We compare BiO-HMC with state-of-the-art planning algorithms on both synthetic and real-world data sets. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our BiO-HMC, i.e., achieving the highest confidence in the correct answer with the lowest labor cost.
